hey guys what's up its and Ravana here
today I'm gonna be doing a very simple
tutorial for you guys it is basically
about how to make your bass guitar tone
stand out in the mix this is a very
important issue if you are doing super
low tuned stuff like I do or you know
you're using like a string guitars and
drop a drop D drop C whatever this might
be helpful for you right in front of me
I got opened a old project file so
basically what I do is I split my bass
guitar track into two so basically i
duplicate my bass guitar just to note
for my mixes I use a VST bass guitar but
this will work for a real bass guitar
the exact same way so anyways you can
see right here I have two bass guitar
tracks only just so little dysphoria
to get it to stand out in the mix what I
like to do is like I said I duplicate it
so I have one bass guitar track that is
only the sub bass really really low
frequencies such as this so as you can
tell there's almost no tone it's not
very audible what this is meant to do is
it's just meant to fill in the low end
of my mix the bass end of the mix but I
like to have my bass guitar stand out as
well as fill out the low it what I do is
I just duplicate the entire basic guitar
track and I throw on two separate tones
so I just showed you my low tone and
then I got my high tone over here so you
can hear that it's basically the
opposite of the other one it has zero
low frequencies at all it's distorted
I've got that like clanky bass tone and
it's only the high end frequencies so
basically what I try to do is I have the
one low bass guitar goes under my guitar
track in frequency and the high one it
goes over top so you can hear it in the
full mix such as this
yeah and I'll just show you some of the
frequencies right here so for the
low-end as you can see it's extremely
eq'd it basically it only contains about
100 to 200 frequency it's high pass and
low pass at two fifty and sixty so again
only sub bass frequencies in there and
then on my high end bass guitar track
it's the opposite it's high pass that
150 has an extreme cut at 500 which is
where the mid-range of my guitar sits so
I just get rid of the bass there
completely so it doesn't mess with the
guitars and then I boost it a lot at
2000 so it sits above the guitar tone
and then again I low pass it at 7000
just to make sure it's not you know -
high-pitched or whatever so yeah
hopefully that makes sense really easy
tip very helpful if you're using super
damn tuned guitars thanks for watching